#Anomaly Detection 

* Anomaly detection also known as outlier detection identifies rare items, events or observations in data. Some synonyms of Anomalies are outliers, novelties, noise, deviations, and exceptions. 
* In most cases, Anomaly detections are used in network intrusion detection. 
* As of now there are three broad categories of anomaly detection techniques:

1. Unsupervised Anomaly Detection: it uses unlabeled test data set under the assumption that the majority of the instances in the dattaset are normal. Itt looks for insttances thatt fit least. 

2. Supervised Anomaly Detection: The technique requires a dataset with labeles like "normal" and "abnormal" and it often involes a classifier. 

3. Semi-supervised anomaly detection: This technique constructs a model representing normal behavior from a normal training dataset, then it will test the likelihood of a testt instance to be generated by the learnt model. 


##Applications

* Anomaly detection is used in different domains such as intrusion detection, fraud detection, medical, defect detection. 

* Some of the popular techniques in literature are Density based techniques like k-nearest neighbor, support vector machines, neural networks, autoencoders, lstm neural networks, bayesian networks, Hidden Markov Models, Minimum Covariance Determinant, Cluster Analysis, Fuzzy Logic-based outlier detection and many more. 

THE MOST IMPORTANT STEP FOR ANOMALY DETECTION IS TO PROVIDE A PROPER DATASETT FOR IT TO LEARN ON. 

- Identify noisy data that's where the anomalies lie on. 


##Datasets

ODDS – ODDS: A large collection of publicly available outlier detection datasets with ground truth in different domains.

http://odds.cs.stonybrook.edu

http://odds.cs.stonybrook.edu




