# Machine-Learning---Anomaly-Detection-via-PyCaret
perform exploratory anomalies detection analysis using Machine Learning


I will be using PyCaret's Anomaly Detection module which is an unsupervised ml module that is ususally used to identify rare items, event or observations. You can easily identify suspicious incidents in a dataset. This module is used in problems such as bank fraud, a structural defect, medical problems and etc. 

The reason to use this model is because pre-processing features that prepares the data for modeling. It also has 12 ready-to-use algorithms. 

Documentation: https://pycaret.org/anomaly-detection/

Pycaret also has modules for 

1. Classfication
2. Regression
3. Clustering
4. Natural Language Processing
5. Association Rules Mining

I will also explore the other modules because it will be useful for my research. 

As of now there are three broad categories of anomaly detection techniques:

1. Unsupervised Anomaly Detection: it uses unlabeled test data set under the assumption that the majority of the instances in the dattaset are normal. Itt looks for insttances thatt fit least. 

2. Supervised Anomaly Detection: The technique requires a dataset with labeles like "normal" and "abnormal" and it often involes a classifier. 

3. Semi-supervised anomaly detection: This technique constructs a model representing normal behavior from a normal training dataset, then it will test the likelihood of a testt instance to be generated by the learnt model. 

The Project Structure 

Task 1: Import data and exploratory anomalies detection analysis
Task 2: Setup PyCaret environment for anomaly detection
Task 3: slect and create the models.
Task 4: Compare anomalies in models
Finally: Visualize, interpret, decisions & save model. 


Install PyCaret

pip install pycaret
